[Music]
we begin in Gaza where the Israeli
military has withdrawn most of its
troops from the KH can Yunis area in the
South however it has left one Brigade
behind it's unclear what's behind the
move but Israel said a significant force
would continue to operate in the rest of
the strip it comes six months after
Israel launched its war on Gaza and what
the international court of justice says
is a plausible case of genocide the
assault began after Hamas attacked
Southern Israel on October the 7th
killing more than 1100 people since then
Israel's bombardment of the strip has
killed more than 33,000 Palestinians
nearly half of them children most of the
population around 1.7 million people has
been displaced another round of
ceasefire negotiations is set to resume
in Cairo on Sunday an Israeli delegation
will attend and Hamas has confirmed it
is also sending
Representatives let's bring in Rory
Chalin he is in occupied East Jerusalem
for us and Rory first of all let's talk
about troop withdrawal what are we
hearing Israel saying about the
decision well basically there is just
one Brigade of Israeli troops left in
the center of Gaza the 98th division
which has been doing so much of the
fighting in KH Unice for the last four
months has been uh withdrawn now the
justification is not official but it's
being talked about in the Israeli media
and essentially what the reasoning
behind it is is that the Israeli
military believes that that Han Unis
operation has been satisfactorily
completed the 98th division now needs
rest and recuperation and the Israeli
military thinks that the best model for
its future uh campaigns and missions in
Gaza is more smallscale raids that are
intelligence-based
uh and that positioning of the nahal uh
Brigade right in the middle of Gaza
means that it's still splits the strip
in two it stops people who have been
displaced from the north to the South
going back uh to their homes which the
Israeli military at the moment doesn't
want them doing um so it allows the
military to do those raids North and do
South but maintain a very minimal
footprint in in Gaza what does this mean
for the Rafa operation well of course it
doesn't rule it out because any big
assault on Rafa would need a big call up
of reservists anyway but it does make it
more uncertain and it does perhaps push
it further into the future Benjamin
Netanyahu has been promising that it
will still take place but of course he's
under significant International pressure
to either cancel that operation or
reduce its scope significantly he saying
it's going to go the head but he hasn't
pulled the trigger on it yet okay and
Rory what are we hearing about this
delegation going to Cairo for another
round of
negotiations yeah I think there's
perhaps a sense here that there is more
momentum behind this particular round of
negotiations than there has been for
some time at least why do we get that
impression well it has been announced
today that a high level uh delegation of
Israelis is going to Cairo it's leaving
and it is going to be engaged in those
talks later on this evening it's going
to be made up of David B who's the head
of mosad it's going to be made up of the
head of shinette the internal security
organization and it's going to be made
up of military Representatives too we
understand that that delegation is going
to Cairo with what is being described as
an expanded mandate what does that mean
well this is how it's been uh talked
about on Israeli media that expanded
mandate means that this delegation has
powers of negotiation now previous
delegations that have gone to Cairo have
gone with very fixed parameters that
have been set by the Netanyahu
government essentially just to go to
Cairo and to listen but not to partake
in actual negotiations themselves
because the negotiating the the position
had been set uh back in Israel this
delegation goes with more Powers than
previous delegations have gone with and
that suggests that there may be a bit of
amens in building behind this now
Netanyahu is saying that it is not
against a deal uh but it is not going to
surrender to Hamas it says that any
surrender to Hamas Hamas would
essentially allow for another October uh
the 7th still big gaps between what the
Israelis think is acceptable and what
Hamas thinks is acceptable but perhaps a
bit more hope than in previous rounds of
negotiations okay worry many thanks for
that update and we'll keep an eye on
those negotiations as they get underway
in Cairo thanks very much